Mimi wo sumaseba
("If you listen closely")
Whisper of the Heart

NOTICE

This is an unauthorized translation of a copyrighted work. The original is 
copyright (c) 1995 by Hiiragi Aoi/Shuueisha, Nibariki, TNHG.

Since it's unauthorized, I'm in no position to demand anything, but please 
honor the following requests.

1. PLEASE don't remove this notice.

2. PLEASE respect the original artists' rights to receive income from 
their work, and purchase a copy of the Japanese original videotape or 
laserdisc to use in conjunction with this script, or with a fansub.

3. If you are a fansubber, PLEASE don't charge for fansubs based on this 
translation, and PLEASE include request number 2 on-screen.

4. If you change it, PLEASE put your name in and what you did so people 
don't get confused.

Translation by Deborah Goldsmith
Closing Credits translated by Miyoko & Dwayne Fujima
Editors: Toyama Ryoko and Fukumoto Atsushi

Script version 1.0.4, November 28, 1996.
[There will undoubtedly be further edits, but this version is suitable for 
wider use.]
[notes are in brackets.] ? signifies some doubt

Opening Screen
A cooperative production of:
Tokuma Shoten - NTV broadcasting network - Hakuhoudou - Studio Ghibli

copyright (c) 1995 by Hiiragi Aoi/Shuueisha, Nibariki, TNHG

The following credits appear during the opening theme:

Mimi wo sumaseba ("If you listen closely")

Shizuku: Honna Youko
Seiji: Takahashi Issei

Shizuku's Father: Tachibana Takashi

Shizuku's Mother: Muroi Shigeru

Baron: Tsuyuguchi Shigeru

"Earth shop" owner: Kobayashi Keiki

Opening Song
Take Me Home, Country Roads
Words & Music (c) 1971 by Bill Danoff, Taffy Nivert, and John Denver

*Country Roads, take me home
To the place I belong
West Virginia, mountain momma
Take me home, country roads

Almost heaven, West Virginia
Blue Ridge Mountains, Shenandoah River
Life is old there, older than the trees
Younger than the mountains, growin' like a breeze

*Refrain

All my mem'ries gather 'round her
Miner's lady, stranger to blue water
Dark and dusty, painted on the sky
Misty taste o' moonshine, teardrop in my eye

*Refrain
[fades out here]

I hear her voice, in the mornin' hours she calls me
Radio reminds me of my home far away
And drivin' down the road I get the feelin'
That I shoulda been home yesterday, yesterday

*Refrain

On the stairs
Shizuku: Good evening.
Neighbor: My, isn't it hot?

Shizuku's home
Shizuku: I'm home.
Mother: Thanks.
Mother: You got a plastic bag again, for one carton of milk?
Shizuku: But that's what they give you.
Mother: You could say no thanks... I'd like some too, please.
Shizuku: Dad? Barley tea?
Father: Mm, I'll have some. I'm coming.
Mother: Thanks.
Mother: Done with the word processor?
Father: It's printing out now.
Mother: I wonder if we should get a notebook word processor after all... 
ugh, cigarette smoke.
Father: Shizuku, it's too bad you didn't go to Kashiwazaki too.
Shizuku: It's OK. Being with Sis would wear me out.
Father: Oh yeah. I'm going to work tomorrow.
Mother: What? Will you need lunch?
Father: It's OK. I'll eat out. The library is finally switching over to 
bar codes, and it's a big fuss getting ready.
Shizuku: So they're really going to change over? I like the cards better.
Father: Well, I do too, but...
Mother: Hey, there's something funny about this document.
Father: What? Where?
Mother: I wonder if there's a line missing... here...
Father: Ah, you're right! Shoot.
Mother: Ohh... Let me go first. If I don't get this put together in a 
hurry the professor is going to give me a hard time.
Shizuku: This guy...
Father: Shizuku, books are nice but you need to go to bed.
Shizuku: OK, good night.

Shizuku's room
Shizuku: I thought so. I thought I recognized that name.
Shizuku: This one too...
Cards: Amasawa Seiji
Shizuku: He's amazing. He checked them all out before me.
Shizuku: Amasawa Seiji... What could he be like? I wonder if he's really 
nice...

Next morning
Mother: Shizukuuu! Get up already! I'm going out.
Mother: What? Dear, did you go to sleep like that?
Mother: Wash the rice for tonight, OK?
Shizuku: Bye.
Shizuku: Ahhh! Is it already that late? I'm supposed to meet Yuuko!
Mother: My wallet!
Shizuku: What? Did you get all the way downstairs again?
Mother: I did.
Mother: That's funny...
Shizuku: By the telephone?
Mother: Found it!
Shizuku: You're the one who left it there...
Mother: Aahhh! I'm going to be late! Close up, OK?
Shizuku: Careless...

Breakfast
Shizuku: Wow! It's really low!
Shizuku: It feels like something nice will happen today.

Walking
Shizuku: Boy, it's hot!
Shizuku: Yoo-hoo! You're lively, aren't you?

At School
Ball player: Belt it!
Friend: Hey, Shizukuuuu!
Shizuku: Yoo-hoo! Good luck, OK?

Inside
Shizuku: Kousaka-sensei, are you here?
Kousaka: Huh? Oh, Tsukishima. What's up?
Shizuku: Sensei, will you do me a favor?
Kousaka: What? It's not something weird, is it?
Shizuku: Please open the library.
Kousaka: The library?

Kousaka: Can't you wait until the term starts?
Shizuku: I finished reading all my books. And the city library is closed 
today.
Shizuku: I decided I was going to read 20 books during vacation.
Kousaka: 20?! Tsukishima, you could at least pretend to study for entrance 
exams.
Kousaka: Come on, hurry it up.
Shizuku: Let's see... Here it is!
Kousaka: Hurry up and bring it over here!
Kousaka: Hey, come on, get out the reader's card and the checkout card!
Shizuku: Here, please.
Kousaka: Heyyy, what's this? No one's checked it out till now.
Shizuku: This is a rare book. It's not even in the city library.
Shizuku: ?! Amasawa... Sensei! Do you know who this Amasawa person is?
Kousaka: Ahhhh! I messed up, didn't I! It's probably whoever donated it. I 
don't know that kind of ancient history. Try asking one of the veteran 
teachers.
Yuuko: Shizukuuu!
Yuuko: Oh, REALLY! This is where you were? And you said to meet by the 
entrance at 11! You made me wait in the sun for 15 minutes! My freckles 
are going to break out again!
Shizuku: S-sorry.
Kousaka: Quit the racket! Harada, you're too worried about your freckles.
Yuuko: Sensei, I'm seriously concerned about it!
Kousaka: I got it, I got it. Come on, you two, out we go.

On a bench
Soccer player: Upfield, upfield!
Shizuku: I made a first try, but it's not going well.
Shizuku: Are you sure you don't want to leave it in English?
Yuuko:
Shiroi kumo waku oka wo
Maite noboru saka no machi

	Hilly town that winds through
	The hills that form white clouds

Furui heya, chiisa na mado

	Old room, small window

Yuuko and Shizuku:
Kaeri matsu oita inu

	The dog who's grown old awaiting my return

Kantorii Roodo, haruka naru
Furusato e tsuduku michi

	Country road, road which continues
	To my home town that's far off

Uesto jiinia, haha naru yama
Natsukashii wagamachi

	West Virginia, mountain mama
	Memories of my town

Yuuko: It's not bad, you know.
Shizuku: It's no good!
Shizuku: So conventional...
Yuuko: I guess so...
Shizuku: I did one this way too.
Yuuko:
Konkuriito roodo, doko made mo
Mori wo kiri, tani wo ume

	Concrete Roads, to everywhere
	Cutting forests, burying valleys

Uesto Toukyou, Maunto Tama

	West Tokyo, Mount Tama

Yuuko and Shizuku:
Furusato ha, konkuriito roodo

	My home town is a concrete road

(Both laugh)
Yuuko: What IS this?
Shizuku: So, you said you wanted to talk, what about?
Shizuku: You don't need the translation yet, right?
Yuuko: Uh-huh...
Yuuko: Shizuku, is there a guy you like?
Shizuku: Huh?
Yuuko: I think it's nice to have someone who feels the same way about you, 
you know... We're all studying for entrance exams, and if we could cheer 
each other on to try hard... that kind of thing.
Shizuku: Yuuko, there's someone you like!
Yuuko: (whisper)
Shizuku: You got a love letter??
Yuuko: Shhh! Don't!
Shizuku: When? What was he like? Is he good-looking?
Yuuko: He's from another class. He was kind of good-looking...
Shizuku: Why not try going with him? Then if you don't like it, turn him 
down.
Yuuko: But...
Shizuku: Well now, I bet there's someone else you like!
Yuuko: Uh...
Shizuku: It's no use trying to hide it! Come onnn, confess!
Yuuko: Uh, umm, Su... Su...
Sugimura: Tsukishimaaa!!
Sugimura: Will you get my bag for me?
Shizuku: Sugimura!
Sugimura: Hey, it's the blue sports bag there. Please, Tsukishimaaa! Throw 
it!
Shizuku: Shut up, already! Mr. Bench Warmer!
Sugimura: Gimme a break! I'm a regular and we made it to the fourth round!
Shizuku: Yuuko?

Walking on a road
Shizuku: So, it's Sugimura, huh? The guy you like...
Yuuko: What'll I do? He might have figured it out... I... That...
Shizuku: Hey, it's OK. He's too dense.
Shizuku: But, what are you going to do? About the love letter, that is.
Yuuko: Mmm. I want to try thinking about it a little more on my own.
Shizuku: I see.
Yuuko: You're lucky. At your house they don't tell you "study, study".
Shizuku: Even though I don't get told often, there are hard times, you 
know.
Yuuko: I guess so...
Shizuku: Oh, rats!
Yuuko: What's the matter?
Shizuku: I forgot my book. I'll go back for it, OK?
Yuuko: Do you want a ride?
Shizuku: It's OK -- you'll be late for cram school.
Yuuko: I'll call you again, OK?
Shizuku: 'kay!

In the schoolyard
Shizuku: Th-that book...
Boy: Ah! This yours?
Boy: There you go... Tsukishima Shizuku.
Shizuku: My name... how...
Boy: Well now, how could I?
Shizuku: Ah! The library card.
Boy: Hey you... I think you should give up on "Concrete Road".
Shizuku: ... You READ IT, DIDN'T YOU!!

Walking home
Shizuku: Jerk! Jerk! Jerk!
Shizuku: Jerk! Jerk! Jerk!

At home
Shizuku: JERK!
Shizuku: "You should give up on 'Concrete Road'"
Shizuku: Who does he think he is?

Later
Shiho: I'm home!
Shizuku: Sis, was it today?
Shiho: Aaaa, I'm beat.
Shiho: There was someone who was driving home right this way, so I got a 
ride.
Shiho: Where's Mom?
Shizuku: She said she was going to a concentrated summer course. Dad's at 
work.
Shiho: Shizuku, straighten things up a little.
Shiho: What about getting dinner ready?
Shizuku: I'll wash the rice.
Shiho: What is this, Shizuku? You left a mess, didn't you?
Shizuku: I'm just about to do it...
Shiho: It's hard on Mom, so we decided to help, right?
Shiho: After you wash the rice, finish the laundry. I'll make dinner after 
I take a shower.

Making dinner
Shiho: Aunty said for you to come too after you're in high school.
Shizuku: Mmm.
Shiho: Are you studying?
Shizuku: Mmm.
Shiho: 'Cause it would be awful if you felt you had nothing to worry about 
because Mom and Dad aren't concerned.
Shizuku: I'm studying!

Over dinner
Shiho: So, you know, she even tried to make me take some soy sauce!
Mother: That's just like Aunty, isn't it!
Mother: I'm almost sure... Didn't the same thing happen last year?
Shiho: That's right! She made me take some miso, you know. Was it heavy! I 
still remember.
Mother: It was about two kilos, wasn't it? But...

Next morning
Shiho: Shizuku! Get up already!
Shiho: Vacuum your own side.
Shiho: I'm washing the sheets so take them off. We're airing the futons, 
too.
Shizuku: Where's Mom?
Shiho: Long gone.

Breakfast
Shiho: Tidy up quickly and take that lunch box to Dad.
Shizuku: What??
Shiho: What do you mean by that tone? You're going to the library, right?
Shiho: Or shall I go instead?
Shiho: Then you can clean the toilet, the bathroom, and the entryway too, 
and go to the co-op for me. And take in the futons, do the shopping, and 
prepare dinner.
Shizuku: Goodbye!

Outside
Shiho: Shizukuuu!
Shiho: Mail this for me, please.
Shizuku: Whaat?
Shiho: Mail this!
Shiho: You don't have to look at it! Don't mail it with the clip!
Shizuku: Your boyfriend?
Shiho: Dummy!

On the train
Shizuku: Kitty, are you alone?
Shizuku: How far are you going?
Shizuku: Is it interesting outside?
Shizuku: Heyyyyy, respond, will you?
Shizuku: I'm getting off here, how about you?
Shizuku: Bye, Kitty.

Station
Child: Oh, a cat!

Station sign: Keiou Line, Suginomiya Station
[Note: This is written with kanji that would normally be read "Keitama". 
However, there is really a Keiou line in Tokyo, and the kanji for "ou" 
(king) and "tama" (jewel) differ by one stroke. The kanji for "tama" can 
also be read as "ou" in names, but not normally in a railway line name. In 
addition, later in the film a train has "Keio" in Roman letters on the 
outside. Given the obvious reference to the real Keiou line and the fact 
that most people wouldn't get the kanji "pun", I put "Keiou".]

Outside
Shizuku: He's going towards the library!

On the street
Shizuku: Awww, just when it felt like a story was getting started.

By the library
Shizuku: There he is!

Sign on door: No admittance except authorized persons

Climbing
Shizuku: Amazing slope. I wonder how far up it goes.

On a path
Shizuku: Kittyyy... Kittyyyy...
Shizuku: I wonder if he lives in this neighborhood?

Chasing the cat
Shizuku: Kitty, where are you going? Do you live around here?

Nice houses
Shizuku: I had no idea there was a place like this on top of the hill.

Kitty tormenting a dog...
Shizuku: How wicked! He's going around teasing dogs!
Shizuku: Hmmmm... Maybe it's me he's teasing.

Chikyuuya...
Shizuku: I had no idea there was a shop like this on top of the hill.
Shizuku: What a wonderful doll...
Shizuku: Are you that kitty I was just following?

Meeting the owner
Nishi: Ah, welcome
Shizuku: uh, uhhh
Nishi: Oh, no, go on, go on. Please look as much as you like. Baron is 
bored, too.
Shizuku: Is Baron this doll's name?
Nishi: That's right. Baron Humbert Von Jikkingen... great name, eh?
Nishi: Ah, thanks.
Nishi: Thanks, I'm OK now.
Shizuku: What a magnificent clock.
Nishi: It was sleeping in a certain castle. It was completely rusted. Have 
a look.
Shizuku: Ohhh, it's pretty! What is that?
Nishi: hee hee hee... the fun part of finishing.

Watching the clock
Shizuku: Ohhh!
Shizuku: It's nicely made... Those are dwarves, aren't they.
Nishi: Very good! So, Miss, you're someone who knows about dwarves.
Nishi: Look at the clock face. I wonder if it's going to work?
Shizuku: An Elf!
Nishi: The glass is shiny, isn't it? Come up here.
Shizuku: Yes.
Shizuku: A Princess?
Nishi: Yes, she is.
Shizuku: Are they in love?
Nishi: Mmm, but they live in different worlds. Because he's king of the 
dwarves. Only while the clock is striking twelve can she return from being 
a sheep to her original world. And so, he too shows himself this way every 
time that it strikes 12. He keeps waiting for the Princess. I'm sure the 
craftsman who made this clock had an unfulfilled love.
Shizuku: That's why these two look sad somehow, isn't it.
Shizuku: Ahhhhhh! This clock is fast, isn't it?
Nishi: Mmm, but around five minutes, I think.
Shizuku: Oh no!
Nishi: Oh...
Shizuku: I have to go to the library! Goodbye!
Shizuku: Mister, may I come again?
Nishi: Sure. For the library it's better to go left.

Running
Shizuku: Wow! It's right above the library!
Shizuku: I found a nice place
Shizuku: It's like a shop from a story!
Shizuku: It's wonnnderful!

On the steps
Boy: Tsukishimaaa! Tsukishima Shizuku!
Boy: This is yours, right?
Shizuku: Huh?
Shizuku: Ahhhhh!
Boy: You're forgetful, aren't you.
Shizuku: Thanks. But, why?
Boy: Now then, why would that be?
Shizuku: The cat!
Shizuku: I-is that cat yours?
Boy: Hey, your lunch box is pretty huge.
Shizuku: Huh?
Shizuku: YOU'RE WRONG!
Boy: Concrete Roads, to everywhere, white road going on...
Shizuku: THAT'S NOT IT! QUIT IT!

At the library
Father: Huh? Shizuku, did you come here for me?
Father: What's wrong? Why the scary face?
Shizuku: It's a little hard to explain.
Father: Oh?
Shizuku: Something very nice happened, and I had a feeling like I'd found 
a treasure in a cave. And then with one thoughtless word I felt like it 
got buried alive.
Father: Ha ha ha... how complicated.
Father: Are you going to borrow some books today, too?
Shizuku: Yeah. I have to read seven more.
Father: Same as always... What are you doing for lunch?
Shizuku: I'll make do at the lunch stand.
Father: Oh? Well then, thanks.

Looking at books
Shizuku: June 16th...
Shizuku: Amazing, this Amasawa guy. He read this book, too. I wonder what 
kind of a person he is?
Shizuku: NO! NOT SOMEONE LIKE YOU!

At home
Mother: Shizukuu! Hurry up!
Mother: Ahhh, we're late.
Mother: Umbrella... Take an umbrella.
Mother: Even though it's the new term, it's nothing but rain.
Shizuku: Stop complaining. You're studying because you like it, right?
Mother: Yes, Ma'am!
Shizuku: Then study hard.
Mother: You can count on me.

Walking to shool
Yuuko: Shizukuuu!
Shizuku: Yoohoo!
Yuuko: Hurry, we'll be late!
Yuuko: It's rotten, isn't it -- nothing but tests.
Shizuku: It's one thing or another every day.
Shizuku: Oh, did you reply?
Yuuko: Uh-uh.
Shizuku: He hasn't come and talked to you again?
Yuuko: Nope. I'm going to turn him down after all.
Shizuku: I see... Yeah, maybe that's for the best...
Shizuku: Sugimuraa!
Sugimura: We're barely gonna make it, you know!
Shizuku: We know!

In class
Teacher: OK, time's up. Please collect the papers.
Teacher: This afternoon will be as usual.
Yuuko: Shizuku, let's go to Kousaka-sensei's office.
Shizuku: Uh-huh. Is it OK if we stop at the staff room on the way?
Yuuko: Sure.
Sugimura: Tsukishima, listen, listen.
Shizuku: What?
Sugimura: I guessed right and aced that test! Amazing, huh?
Shizuku: You lucky dog.
Sugimura: I just looked during the break, and I was exactly right!
Shizuku: You weren't just a baseball nut.
Shizuku: Speaking of guessing, Yuuko's good at it. Why not study with her 
next time?
Sugimura: Harada is?
Boy: Sugimura, Sugimura!
Sugimura: What is it?
Boy: Did you see this?
Yuuko: Let's go, Shizuku!

On the stairs
Yuuko: Don't try to force us together!
Shizuku: You noticed?
Yuuko: Because I'm not good at guessing!
Shizuku: I'm sorry.

Staff room
Shizuku: Please excuse us.
Teacher: Who donated a book? I'm not sure I'll know...
Shizuku: I'm sorry to interrupt while you're eating. It's this library 
mark here.
Teacher: Mm? Let me see...
Teacher: Ah, it's Amasawa-san, isn't it? I read this too. Nice book, isn't 
it?
Shizuku: Yes, very. So, who is this gentleman named Amasawa?
Teacher: I'm sure it was several years ago. He was selected chairman of 
the PTA.
Shizuku: The PTA? Umm, do you know his full name?
Teacher: His full name? Let me see... Kimura-sensei... what was 
Amasawa-san's name again? The doctor?
Kimura: Amasawa-san? I'm certain it's Kouichi. Amasawa Kouichi.
Shizuku: Amasawa Kouichi...
Kimura: Tsukishima! There's an Amasawa who's this man's youngest son in 
your grade, isn't there? Didn't you know?
Shizuku: WHAT?
Shizuku: Uh... Umm... Thank you very much!
Yuuko: Please excuse us.

Outside the staff room
Shizuku: I'm sorry!
Yuuko: Shizuku, where are you going?

Outside
Shizuku: I was startled.
Yuuko: I'm the one who was startled! I'm going to get a proper explanation!
Shizuku: I'm sorry

Passing "the jerk"
Yuuko: Shizuku, now where are you going?
Shizuku: Who does he think he is, ignoring me completely?
Yuuko: Shizuku, who was that? Where did you think you were going?
Shizuku: That guy's a jerk! Is it wrong to get away?

Kousaka's office
Friend 1: Hahahahaha
Friend 2: That's so cute! 
Yuuko: I was running around carrying Shizuku's lunch box!
Kousaka: Tsukishima and a boy, eh?
Friend 1: Sensei! At last, spring has come even to Shizuku, hasn't it?
Shizuku: I told you, that's not it!
Friend 1: The truth is, you met the prince of books, right?
Friend 2: Is he handsome?
Shizuku: I told you, I only wondered what kind of guy he is!
Friend 2: Hey, Yuuko, you must know his name. Tell us!
Shizuku: Yuukoo!
Yuuko: Well... it happened so fast... There was a "ma" in it, was it 
Masaki? Ama... Hey, Shizuku...
Shizuku: Well, gee!
Kousaka: But you know, running off without hearing the end of the story is 
just like Tsukishima, isn't it?
Friend 1: You want to know, but you don't want to know! Your trembling 
heart is painful and happy!
Friend 2: You're such a romantic!
Shizuku: Well, fine if you're going to tease me like that! And after I 
brought my "Country Roads" song.
Yuuko: It's done?
Friend 1: Let's see, let's see!
Yuuko: Lady Shizuku, great master poet, we shall tease no more, so please 
show us.
Shizuku: Very well.
Shizuku: The truth is, I'm not too sure about it.
Shizuku: There really is something I don't get about "home town", so I 
wrote honestly with my own feelings.
Friend 1: This is pretty radical, isn't it.
All:
Kantorii Roodo, kono michi,
Zu-tto yukeba
Ano machi ni tsuduite ru,
ki ga suru Kantorii Roodo

	Country Road, If you follow
	this road all the way, I have a feeling
	it's the Country Road to my home town

Yuuko: It's good, Shizuku! I like it.
Shizuku: It's not hard to sing?
Friend 1: I think we'll manage.
Yuuko: Just giving it to the juniors is too dull. Let's us sing it too, at 
the teacher appreciation party.
Shizuku: What? The teacher appreciation party?
Friend 2: You're getting ahead of yourself!
Friend 1: This part here is nice...
Friend 1:
Hitori de ikiru to
Nani mo motazu, machi wo tobidashita
Sabishisa oshikomete,
Tsuyoi jibun wo mamotte ita

	Intending to live alone, with nothing,
	I flew out of town
	Shutting loneliness inside,
	I protected my strong self.

Kousaka: First bell, ladies.
All: Yes, Ma'am.

Walking home
Shizuku: Ahhhh, it cleared up!
Yuuko: Shizukuuuu!
Yuuko: Won't you come drop by Chorus club? We're going to show that 
translation.
Shizuku: No thanks. I have to go to the library.
Yuuko: What? There's a test tomorrow too, you know.
Shizuku: I'll do it at the library.
Yuuko: You really like it, don't you.
Shizuku: See you later.
Yuuko: Bye-bye!

Yuuko and Sugimura
Sugimura: Harada...
Sugimura: Um, y'know, sorry to bother you, but have you got a minute?
Yuuko: Umm.

Chikyuuya
Shizuku: So they're closed after all.
Shizuku: I wonder if the flowers are getting watered?
Shizuku: Baron is gone!
Shizuku: I wonder if someone bought him?

Sign:
Studio Earth Shop [Atelier Chikyuuya]
Nishi Shirou

Shizuku: Nishi Shirou... I wonder if that guy's name is Nishi too?

At home
Shiho: Shizuku... Shizukuuuu!
Shiho: You have a phone call from Yuuko-chan!
Mother: Shizuku, your ears are going to go bad.
Shizuku: Yuuko? Huh? What? I can't hear you.
Shizuku: Mmm...
Shizuku: I'll come right away so... Mmm... OK, I'm hanging up.
Mother: Where are you going?
Shizuku: Not far.

Outside
Shizuku: What's the matter? Yuuko...
Yuuko: Shizukuuuu....
Shizuku: What's wrong? Oh--what's with your face?!
Yuuko: Shizuku, what am I gonna do? Sugimura's friend asked him to get an 
answer to that letter.
Shizuku: WHAT?!
Shizuku: Oh, jeez!

Flashback
Yuuko: How could you say such a thing!
Sugimura: H-Hey!

On a bench
Shizuku: Boy, he's thick all right. But you know, it's not that he knows 
how you feel.
Yuuko: I'll apologize to him. But I can't go to school looking like this, 
so I'll take tomorrow off, OK?
Shizuku: Even with the test?
Yuuko: Yeah.
Shizuku: I see...

Test
Shizuku: (silently) Moron!
Sugimura: (silently) What'd I do?

Hallway
Friend 2: Seems like it went well.
Friend 1: Shizukuuuu! The library today too?
Shizuku: I'll try going to Yuuko's.
Friend 1: Oh, really? Say hi.
Shizuku: Sure. Bye-bye!
Friend 1: Bye-bye!

Walking
Sugimura: Tsukishimaaa!
Sugimura: Wait up!
Sugimura: It's about Harada...

Shrine
Sugimura: And then, you know, the darn girl suddenly started crying...
Sugimura: Say... I wonder if I said something bad?
Shizuku: Sugimura, you know... Yuuko said "Why are you saying something 
like this?", right?
Sugimura: Yeah... that's why I said "My friend from Baseball Club asked me 
to..."
Shizuku: THAT'S NOT IT! When she said that she meant she didn't want to 
hear it from you. You know what that means, right?
Sugimura: I don't! Make yourself clear, will ya?
Shizuku: God, you really are dense, aren't you! Yuuko's in love with you!
Sugimura: WHAT?
Sugimura: That... I... what a fix!
Shizuku: "A fix"? The one to feel sorry for is Yuuko! She got such a shock 
she stayed home from school!
Sugimura: B-but... I... I love you!
Shizuku: WHAT?
Shizuku: N-no... Don't joke at a time like this!
Sugimura: It's not a joke! I've been in love with you for a long time.
Shizuku: Y-you can't! I... But that...
Sugimura: Do you hate me? Are you going out with some guy?
Shizuku: I'm not going out with anyone... B-but...
Shizuku: I'm sorry!
Sugimura: Wait up!
Sugimura: Tsukishima... tell me straight!
Shizuku: Well... you've always been my friend, so I like you... but "like" 
doesn't mean that...
Shizuku: I'm sorry... I can't say it right...
Sugimura: Just a friend?
Sugimura: And we're still just friends?
Sugimura: I see...

Home
Shizuku: Idiot! I'm the one who's dense!

Later
Neighbor: Tsukishima-san, please wait a second. I've got a delivery that 
came for you.
Mother: Thanks again, as always.

Outside
Neighbor: I'm sorry, we always wind up getting some.
Mother: It's OK, we can't finish them off ourselves anyway.
Mother: Oh, were you home?
Mother: Shizuku...

Outside Chikyuuya
Shizuku: Yoohoo...
Shizuku: Are you shut out too?
Shizuku: Do you live here? You're not going hungry?
Shizuku: You're not very sweet either, are you?
Shizuku: Just like me...
Shizuku: Why do we change, I wonder? Like me... Even though I was always 
such a meek, gentle girl. Reading books, too... I don't get excited like I 
used to. Right away, you know, something inside says, "It's not likely 
things would work out this well." Not very sweet...

"The Jerk" arrives
Boy: Say, it's Tsukishima.
Shizuku: Oh!
Boy: Moon really let you pet him.
Boy: Hey, Moon, aren't you going to drop in?
Shizuku: Is that cat named Moon?
Boy: Yeah. He looks like a full moon, right? So I call him Moon.
Shizuku: Isn't Moon your family's cat?
Boy: He's impossible to tie down. At other houses I've heard him called 
"Otama". I'm sure he has other names besides.
Shizuku: So he wanders from place to place.
Shizuku: Oh, that's it! Moon commutes by train!
Boy: By train?
Shizuku: That's right. He was riding on the train by himself. So I 
followed him and wound up here. And there was this wonderful shop here, 
right? It was like being in a story, I was all excited. I said something 
bad. I told Moon he wasn't very sweet. Just like me.
Boy: Moon, like you? You're not alike at all!
Boy: That cat is half goblin. [bakeneko]
Shizuku: Umm... Boy: You...
Shizuku: Is your grandfather well? The shop's been closed for so long I 
was wondering if he was all right...
Boy: He's never been better. It's just that this a weird shop; it's not 
open very often.
Shizuku: Oh really? I'm glad. When I peeked in the window, I couldn't see 
Baron, and I wondered if he'd been sold...
Boy: Oh yeah! That cat doll? Wanna see? Come on.

On the stairs
Boy: Close the door.
Shizuku: Wow...
Shizuku: Like floating in the sky.
Boy: Acrophobia?
Shizuku: Uh-uh. I like high places. Wonderful...
Boy: This time of day is the prettiest. This way.

In the shop
Boy: Just right! Sit there.
Shizuku: The clock is gone.
Boy: Ah! The one that was there?
Boy: We went to deliver it today. Come over here.
Shizuku: It was sold?
Boy: It was originally a repair job.
Shizuku: I see. I really wanted to see it one more time.
Boy: Took three years, too. It was finished the day you forgot your lunch 
box.
Shizuku: Oh! That lunch box!
Boy: I know. At least that it wasn't yours. Come here and try looking into 
the cat's eyes.
Boy: Hey, hurry it up! The light's going.
Shizuku: Ohhhh!
Boy: "Engel's Zimmer": Angel's Room, it's called. They say it's made when 
the craftsman accidentally causes a flaw while attaching the fabric.
Shizuku: It's so pretty.
Boy: Baron won't disappear, you know. Because he's a treasure of Grandpa's.
Shizuku: A treasure?
Boy: It seems like there're some memories involved. But he won't say. You 
can look as much as you like. I'll be downstairs.
Boy: The light's there, OK? Turn it on if you want.
Shizuku: It's mysterious, isn't it. I have a feeling like I've known about 
you from long ago... Sometimes I want to see you so much I can't bear it.
Shizuku: Today you look very sad somehow...

Downstairs
Boy: Oh... All done?
Shizuku: Y-yeah, thanks. Say, that... Are you by any chance making a 
violin?
Boy: Eh? Yeah.
Shizuku: May I see?
Boy: Mmm.
Boy: It goes together this way.
Shizuku: Did you make this all yourself? By hand?
Boy: Of course I did.
Shizuku: I can't believe it!
Boy: The shape of the violin was set 300 years ago. Since then, the skill 
of the craftsman has determined how good the sound is.
Shizuku: Did you make all these too?
Boy: You've gotta be kidding... There's a violin-making class that meets 
here too, you know.
Shizuku: But one of them is yours, right?
Boy: Mmm.
Shizuku: Come on, which one.
Boy: That one!
Shizuku: Ohhhh... This one? It's amazing, that you can make them so well. 
It's just like magic.
Boy: You know, you can toss off embarassing things like that pretty often.
Shizuku: Oh? What's wrong with that? It's how I really feel.
Boy: Anyone can make one like this. They're still no good at all.
Shizuku: Hey, I bet you play the violin.
Boy: Well, kinda.
Shizuku: Please let me hear! Even just a little.
Boy: Hey now...
Shizuku: Please Please Pleeeease!
Boy: Fine! But in return, you sing!
Shizuku: Huh? I-I can't! I'm tone deaf!
Boy: That oughta be just about right.

He tunes up
Boy: Sing, will ya? It's the one you know.
Shizuku:
Hitori botchi, osorezu ni
Ikiyou to yume mite ta
Samishisa oshikomete
Tsuyoi jibun wo mamotte ikou

	I dreamed of living
	without fear of being alone
	Bottling up loneliness
	I'll go, preserving my strong self

Kantorii Roodo, kono michi
Zutto yukeba
Ano machi ni tsuduite ru
Ki ga suru Kantorii Roodo

	Country Road, If you follow
	this road all the way, I have a feeling
	it's the Country Road to my home town

Donna samishii toki datte
Kesshite namida wo misenaide
Kokoro nashi ka hochou ga hayaku natte iku
omoide kesu tame

	No matter when I get sad
	I never cry
	Without meaning to, my pace quickens
	To erase the memories

Kantorii Roodo, kono michi
Furusato he tsuduite mo
Boku ha, ikanai sa
Ikenai Kantorii Roodo

	Country Road, even if this road
	continues to my home town
	I won't go, you know
	The Country Road I can't take

Kantorii Roodo, ashita ha
Itsu mo no boku sa
Kaeritai, kaerenai
Sayounara, Kantorii Roodo

	Country Road, tomorrow
	I'll be the same, you know
	I want to go home but I can't
	Farewell, Country Road

Nishi: Ah, what a pleasure!
Shizuku: I'm Tsukishima Shizuku. Thank you very much for just now.
Nishi: Not at all. I'd been thinking I wanted to meet you again, Miss. 
These two are my music friends.
Friend 1: Nice vocal! You're the young lady who had the luck to be here 
when the famous clock was completed, aren't you?
Friend 2: Who'd have thought Seiji-kun had such a cute friend?
Shizuku: What?! SEIJI?? Are you by any chance Amasawa Seiji?
Seiji: Yes. Wait a minute. Did I not say my name?
Shizuku: You did NOT. And it said "Nishi" out front.
Seiji: That's Grandpa's name. Mine is Amasawa.
Shizuku: What a horrible surprise! I'm buried alive in a cave! It's like 
the sky is falling!
Seiji: What kinda stupid things are you saying? What does it matter what 
my damn name is?
Shizuku: It does matter! YOU used my full name without an honorific!
Seiji: Well YOU shoulda asked, right?
Shizuku: And when did I have time to ask?
Shizuku: Ahhhhh... Amasawa Seiji... I was sure...
Seiji: Now what?
Shizuku: I thought you were a gentle, quiet person!
Seiji: You know, you read too many books.
Shizuku: And you don't read lots too?

Walking home
Shizuku: It was really fun. Everyone is so nice.
Seiji: Come again. Grandpa and his friends would like that.
Shizuku: If only I could've just listened... Singing was painful. But 
Amasawa-kun, you're good at the violin. Are you going to pursue it?
Seiji: There are lots of guys as good as me. But y'know, more than that, I 
want to become a violin maker.
Shizuku: Really? Because you're already so good, aren't you.
Seiji: In Cremona, Italy, there's a violin-making school. I'd like to go 
there after junior high.
Shizuku: You won't go to high school?
Seiji: Everyone in my family is against it in a big way. So I still don't 
know how things are going to turn out. Only Grandpa is standing by me.
Shizuku: It's amazing... you've already decided on your life's direction. 
I don't have even a guess about mine. Just getting through each day 
somehow...
Seiji: Well, I still haven't decided whether I'm really going or not 
either, you know. I fight with my parents every day. Even if it was OK, if 
I don't actually try it I'll never know if I have the talent.
Seiji: Is it OK if I don't see you home all the way?
Shizuku: Sure, it's just a little farther.
Shizuku: Bye now!
Seiji: Uh, Tsukishima!
Shizuku: W-what?
Seiji: You know, you can really write songs.
Seiji: I like the one you just sang, but I like "Concrete Roads" too.
Shizuku: What is this? The other day you told me to give up!
Seiji: Did I say something like that?
Shizuku: YOU DID!
Seiji: Really?
Shizuku: Thanks for today. Goodbye!

At home
Shiho: Shizuku, turn your lamp off like you're supposed to. Yesterday you 
left it on.
Shizuku: Sis, when did you decide what you'd do?
Shiho: Huh?
Shizuku: What-you'd-do!
Shiho: I thought you were applying to Sugi-no-miya?
Shizuku: Not about high school...
Shiho: I'm going to college to find that out.
Shizuku: (sigh)
Shiho: Good night.
Shizuku: Good night.

Running in the rain
Shizuku: Mom didn't get up just 'cause her class was cancelled!
Sugimura: Morning!
Shizuku: Morning!
Sugimura: Run faster!
Shizuku: It's OK to go on ahead.
Blackboard: (September 7. First hour, self-study. Workbook B, p.32-33)
Shizuku: I'm saved.
Yuuko: Shizuku... Shizuku...
Yuuko: Gosh, what a look.
Shizuku: Speaking of which, you've recovered quickly.
Yuuko: Last night, were you walking with a boy from another class?
Shizuku: What? Who's been saying that?
Yuuko: It's going around. They're saying you looked like a couple.
Shizuku: It's not like that...
Student (off): Either one's fine, y'know.
Sugimura: Harada, about that matter, I wanted to apologize. I'm sorry.
Yuuko: No, it's my fault, I'm sorry.
Sugimura: It's OK.
Sugimura's friend: Hey, did you see Sasuke last night? He was amazing! I 
was moved...

During class
Teacher: This formula is going to be on the midterm, OK, so please 
memorize it.
Class: What?!
Teacher: Dismissed!

Hallway
Seiji: Umm, Is Tsukishima here?
Student: Amasawa? What's up?
Seiji: Tsukishima's in this class, right?
Student: Tsukishima? Yeah, she's here.
Student: Hey, Tsukishima! You got a visitor -- a guy!
Student: See, there she is.
Shizuku: Seiji-kun!!
Seiji: Tsukishima... have you got a minute?
Shizuku: Yes!
Student: Wheee! Tsukishima's got a guy!
Students: Boyfriend!...Boyfriend!...Boyfriend!...
Shizuku: NO! It's not like that, I tell you!
Shizuku: What on Earth is it?
Seiji: They're letting me go! To Italy.
Shizuku: Huh?!
Shizuku: Let's go somewhere else.
Seiji: Where are we going?
Shizuku: The rooftop.
Shizuku: Ahhhh!
Seiji: Incredible...
Shizuku: You know, you called for me in front of all those people.
Seiji: Sorry. I wanted you to be the first to know.
Shizuku: I don't mind it being misinterpreted but...
Seiji: Dad finally gave in. But there's a condition.
Shizuku: Huh? What?
Seiji: I'm going to apprentice at a studio a friend of Grandpa's 
introduced me to for two months.
Shizuku: Apprenctice?
Seiji: They say the master is really strict, and he'll see whether there's 
any hope for me. And besides, I'll find out whether my self-confidence can 
see me through.
Seiji: If it doesn't work, I have to do what Dad says and go on to high 
school. I... don't like that, 'cause it's like planning an escape route. 
But it's my chance, so I'm going to go.
Shizuku: When? When are you going?
Seiji: As soon as I get my passport. Dad and I are talking to the school 
today.
Shizuku: So it's soon, then.
Shizuku: It's nice, isn't it? Your dream will come true.
Seiji: Yeah. Anyway, I'm gonna try my best.
Shizuku: Umm... Seiji: Eh?
Seiji: Hey, the rain's stopped.
Shizuku: It has.
Shizuku: Ohhh, look over there.
Shizuku: Maybe there'll be a rainbow.
Seiji: Mmm.
Shizuku: I wonder what kind of town Cremona is. I hope it's wonderful.
Seiji: Yeah. They say it's an old town. Lots of violin makers live there.
Shizuku: It's great, isn't it? Facing your dreams and pursuing them. I'm 
such a fool. "It'd be nice to go to the same high school with you" -- 
stuff like that. Ha ha. So completely on a low level I can't stand it.

Stairwell
Boy 1: Shhh, they're here.
Boy 2: Hey, we found 'em!

Rooftop
Seiji: From long ago, I noticed you from the circulation cards. I bet you 
don't know how many times I've passed you in the library.
Seiji: Hey, I've even sat in the seat next to you.
Shizuku: What?!
Seiji: You know, in order to write my name on the cards before you I read 
quite a few books.
Seiji: I... After I've gone to Italy, I'll sing that song of yours and try 
my best.
Shizuku: I... me too...

Boy 1: Don't push, moron!

Shizuku: QUIT IT!!!

Stairwell
Student 1: She's mad!
Student 2: I'm so scared!
Student 3: Here she comes!

At home
Shiho: Here you are.
Father: Ah, thanks.
Shizuku: Thanks for dinner.
Mother: Shizuku, aren't you going to eat any more?
Shizuku: I'm going to meet Yuuko.
Mother: If you're going towards the station buy some milk.
Shizuku: What?!
Shiho: Shizuku, you're the one who guzzles it, right?
Shiho: Recently that kid has slacked off altogether.

Outside the convenience store
Shizuku: I'm sorry! Did you have to cut class?
Yuuko: It's OK.
Shizuku: Man, I've gone soft in the head.

Yuuko's house
Yuuko's mother: Oh! Shizuku-chan, it's nice to see you.
Shizuku: Good evening.
Yuuko's father: Welcome home.
Shizuku: Please excuse me.
Yuuko's mother: I'll make some tea, so come get it, OK?
Yuuko: I will.
Yuuko: I'm having a fight with my father, so I'm not speaking to him.

Yuuko's room
Yuuko: Boys are amazing, aren't they?
Shizuku: Even though he'll come home in two months, after graduation he'll 
go right back. He say's he'll study over there for about ten years.
Yuuko: That's almost like saying goodbye forever.
Yuuko: But y'know, more than that, it's like being joined together by a 
red thread, isn't it? That's wonderful!
Shizuku: He's too cool. Because even though we were reading the same 
books, one of us did only that, you know, and the other already has 
decided on his life's course and is steadily following it.
Yuuko: I see...
Yuuko: You're right, too. When Kinu-chan was a freshman, she was in the 
same class, wasn't she. 
Yuuko: She said he's a little hard to approach, but he's handsome, and 
studies hard, too.
Shizuku: Of course he is! Please don't talk about it that explicitly. I'm 
getting more and more depressed.
Yuuko: Why? If you like him it's OK, isn't it? He's already told you that 
he likes you, right?
Shizuku: I'm not even sure about that anymore.
Yuuko: I don't get it. If it was me, we'd be writing letters of 
encouragement to each other every day.
Shizuku: It's because I just can't encourage someone who's been striving 
more than me for so long.
Yuuko: I wonder...
Yuuko: When you talk like that, you know, I don't know how you want things 
to turn out with him. Is it that if you haven't decided what to do with 
your life, you can't fall in love either?
Yuuko: You have talent too, don't you? The juniors just love your "Country 
Roads" translation. You're not like me... You can speak your mind clearly.
Shizuku: "There are plenty of guys as good as me."
Yuuko: Huh?
Shizuku: Uh-uh... Something he said. He's going in order to make sure he 
has talent. If that's the case, I'll make sure too.
Shizuku: I've decided! I'm going to write a story. There's something I 
want to write about. If he's going to do it, I'll try too.
Yuuko: But the midterm is coming up.
Shizuku: It's OK. Yuuko, thanks. Somehow my energy has bounced back.
Yuuko: Are you going home?
Shizuku: Yeah.

Downstairs
Shizuku: Sorry to intrude.
Yuuko's mother: Give my regards to your mother, OK?
Shizuku: I will.

Outside
Shizuku: Yuuko, you hang in there too, OK?
Yuuko: Mmm.
Shizuku: I'm sure even Sugimura can understand how nice you are.
Shizuku: Goodbye.
Yuuko: Goodbye.

Walking
Shizuku: I see... it's so simple. All I need to do is try too.
Shizuku: Moon!
Girl: Muta... Muta...
Girl: Mommm, Muta went off again.
Girl: Muta...
Shizuku: "Muta", huh?

At home
On paper: 
"If You Listen Closely"
Listen to the voice of the forest. And the memories of the wind which 
blows from a far cluster of stars, and the world told of by the cloud...

Chikyuuya
Nishi: Oh, make Baron the hero...
Shizuku: May I have your permission? Because I heard from Seiji-kun that 
this doll is a treasure of yours.
Nishi: Ha ha ha. And so you went to the trouble... Yes, indeed. But 
there's one condition.
Shizuku: Yes?
Nishi: It's that you let me be the first reader of your story.
Shizuku: Uh, ummm...
Nishi: How's that?
Shizuku: Do I really have to show it to you? 'Cause... I don't know yet 
whether or not I can write well.
Nishi: Ha ha ha ha. That's something we craftsmen have to face too. You 
can't possibly expect it to be perfect at first.
Nishi: Oh yes. Maybe I should show you something nice.
Nishi: Here we go.
Nishi: Have a look.
Nishi: This is a stone called mica schist. Try peeking into the crack. 
That's right, like that.
Shizuku: Ohhh! It's so pretty!
Nishi: It's called "beryl". There's an inclusion of raw emerald.
Shizuku: "Emerald"? The gemstone?
Nishi: That's right. You and Seiji both, you're like that stone. 
Unpolished stones in their natural state. Now, I like even unpolished 
stones very much, but things like violin making and storywriting are 
different. You have to find the rough gems inside yourself, take the time, 
and polish them. It's very time consuming work. That rock has a largest 
stone, right?
Shizuku: Yes.
Nishi: Actually, that one, when you polish it, instead turns out to be 
worthless. The smaller ones further inside are of higher purity. And in a 
part you can't see from the outside, there might be even better stones. 
Ah, this won't do. You get old and you start getting preachy.
Shizuku: I've become very afraid of finding out whether or not I have have 
a beautiful crystal like this inside me. But I want to write. When I've 
written my story, I'll be sure to show it to you first.
Nishi: Thank you. I'm looking forward to it.

Walking
Shizuku: A rough stone...
Shizuku: A vein of Lapis Lazuli...

The Story
Baron: Now then, I shall serve as your companion, on our journey to find 
the vein of Lapis Lazuli.
Baron: There is nothing to fear.
Baron: On the day of the new moon, space becomes warped.
Baron: Far things only appear large and near things only appear small.
Baron: Let's jump! We'll catch the updraft.
Baron: We must hurry! The planetoids have gathered.

Flying
Baron: It's all right, you know. We're riding the air currents.
Baron: At this rate, we'll be over that tower in a moment.
Girl: That high?
Baron: What? All we need do is draw nearer and it'll be no such thing, you 
know.

Running
Shizuku: We'll go unafraid! When the afternoon air currents are mixed up, 
our hands can reach even the stars!

Library
Father: Huh?
Father: Wow... Boy, that's unusual. Shizuku looking for a book that's not 
a storybook.

Doing research
Book: Opal, Quartz, ???, Jadeite, Lazurite
Shizuku: This person... he's making a violin in prison.
Shizuku: Seiji-kun! I was wondering if you'd already left.
Seiji: I heard from Grandpa, and I thought you would be here.
Seiji: I'm glad I was able to see you... I leave tomorrow.
Shizuku: Tomorrow?
Seiji: It's OK. I'll wait here until you're done.

Going home
Seiji: Sorry about not seeing you home.
Shizuku: Uh-uh. I was very happy you came. I can't see you off but I'll be 
waiting for you to come back.
Seiji: Yeah, it's only two months, y'know.
Shizuku: I'm sorry I've done nothing but complain. I'm going to try my 
best, too.
Seiji: Well, so long.
Shizuku: Goodbye!

The Story
Baron: I and my fiancee Louise were born in a town in a far off land.
Baron: In this town, magic still lived, and the blood of magicians flowed 
in the veins of the craftsmen who linked together the studios.
Baron: The one who made us was a poor apprentice dollmaker.
Baron: But Louise and I were happy, for he instilled in us a feeling of 
love for humanity.
Baron: But then...

In class
Yuuko: Shizuku... Shizuku... Shizuku!
Teacher: What's the matter? Tsukishima!
Shizuku: I-I don't know. I wasn't listening.
Teacher: Shape up! This is an important time for you, you know!
Shizuku: I'm sorry, sir.
Teacher: Harada, you read instead.
Yuuko: Yes, sir.

Lunch
Yuuko: WHAT? You were up till 4 again?!
Shizuku: Calm down, OK? 'Cause I don't get tired at all.
Yuuko: But, you know, recently you've been spacing out a lot. Like just 
now...
Shizuku: I was just lost in thought. There are too many things I want to 
write so I haven't got them together.
Shizuku: Somehow I don't have an appetite.

Home
Mother: Shizuku! You're here? For goodness sake, you didn't even turn on 
the lights.
Mother: Ahh, I wish you had at least finished the laundry.
Mother: Shizuku! Come here for a moment, Shizuku.

Dinner:
Father: Where's Shizuku? She's home, right?
Mother: She said she didn't want anything.

Teacher's room
Teacher: Ah, I've been waiting.
Mother: Sorry to trouble you.
Teacher: Please come this way.
Teacher: The career guidance office is empty, right?
Another teacher: Right.
Teacher: Please...

Home
Mother: I'm home.
Shiho: Welcome back.
Mother: You're early today, aren't you, Shiho.
Mother: Phew, I'm beat.
Shiho: Coffee?
Mother: Yes, please.
Shiho: Mother, there's something I'd like to discuss with you.
Mother: What is it?
Shiho: I'm thinking of moving out.
Shiho: A room's already been found.
Mother: But that'll take money, won't it?
Shiho: It's OK. I've saved up from my part-time job, and what's more I've 
found an opening as a cram-school teacher, so somehow I'll get by.
Mother: I see... and I've been doing nothing but having you help out. Do 
your best. I'll talk to Father about it.
Shiho: Really? I'm so glad!
Mother: Until spring you'll have to deal with the expenses, but after 
graduation, I'll be able to work too, so we'll help out a little, OK?
Shiho: Mm, I hope so. I'm sorry, this is a terrible time, with your 
Master's thesis.
Mother: Thanks. I'm very grateful just for your help getting the data 
together.
Shiho: With more space in the room, Shizuku will be able to concentrate a 
little on her studying, too. Because that kid's been acting kind of 
strange lately.
Mother: You really think so?
Mother: Today, I was called to school. Look at this.
Shiho: What is this?
Shiho: I don't believe it! Her rank has dropped a hundred places!
Mother: That kid seems to be stuck to her desk, doing something.

Outside
Father: Ah, good evening.
Neighbor: Welcome home.
Neighbor: Pardon me.

Inside
Shiho: With grades like that, what kind of high school do you think you're 
going to get into?
Shizuku: So what? I just won't go to high school.
Shiho: Not go to high school?! You're sure wearing rose-colored glasses! 
With just junior high, what do you think you can do?!
Shizuku: I'll at least decide my own life's course!
Shiho: You're pretty sassy, aren't you? Your course is just to escape 
reality! You do understand that your record will be decided by the second 
term, right?
Shizuku: Is studying that big a deal? Since you entered college you've 
just worked part time jobs!
Shiho: I'm doing what I'm supposed to be doing! The one who's running away 
from what she has to do is you! Don't you understand that!
Shizuku: I am not running away! I have something more important to do!
Shiho: What's "more important"? Try speaking plainly!
Father: Shiho, Shizuku, stop it already.
Shiho: But... Father, Shizuku's being awful.
Father: Hm. You two come here and try to explain your reasons. Shizuku... 
change your clothes like you're supposed to and come.
Shiho: Hurry it up.

Kitchen
Paper slip: Midterm test results, Grade 3 (=U.S. 9) Class 5 (Tsukishima 
Shizuku)
Japanese: 82, English I: 62, English II: 54, Math I: 17, Math II: 31, 
Chemistry: 39, History: 53, Social Studies: 46, Total: 384
Out of 276 students, number 153

Father: Now I see.
Father: Shizuku, is it as Shiho says?
Shizuku: It's not like I don't care about my tests!
Shiho: Didn't you say "I just won't go to high school" a little while ago?
Shizuku: But you said I wouldn't be able to go anywhere...
Father: Shiho... I'm going to speak with Shizuku alone, so would you 
please leave?
Shiho: Yes, sir.
Father: Where's Mother?
Shiho: At the Tanakas.
Mother: I'm home.
Shiho: Welcome home. Mother...
Mother: Is Father home?
Shiho: Yeah.
Father: Mother, would you please join us? I've just heard from Shiho about 
Shizuku.
Mother: Coming.
Father: Now then... Shizuku.
Father: Is what you're doing now more important than even your studies?
Father: Won't you tell us about what it is you're doing?
Shizuku: When I can tell you, I will.
Mother: Shizuku, is this something that must be done right now?
Shizuku: There's no time! If I don't do it in the next three weeks... 
Because I've decided to test myself during that time. I have to do it.
Mother: Test? What? What is it you're testing?
Mother: If you don't speak up we won't know, right?
Mother: Is this something you can't say to your mother or father?
Mother: Dear.
Father: Ah, sorry. Guess I forgot.
Father: I've seen how you've been doing something wholeheartedly at the 
library. I've been impressed. Shall we let Shizuku do as she wants, Mother?
Father: After all, there's more than one way to live your life.
Mother: Mmm. Besides, I remember being in her shoes once or twice myself.
Father: OK. Shizuku, try doing what you believe in.
Father: But you know, living in a different way from other people is hard 
in its own way. Because no matter what happens you can't blame it on 
anyone else.
Mother: And I also want you to show your face at mealtimes.
Father: That's right. Because we are a family, right?
Shizuku: I will.
Father: Go call Shiho.
Mother: I'll make tea.
Father: Mmm.

Bedroom
Shiho: Shizuku.
Shiho: Dad may have said what he did, but the truth is he wishes you would 
study, OK?
Shizuku: I know! It's been made more than clear!
[literally: "it's written on his back". Couldn't find an equivalent 
English saying.]
Shiho: I'm gonna be moving out this Sunday.
Shiho: You can have the room to yourself.
Shizuku: Sis, you're leaving home?
Shiho: Right. Shape up.

A Dark Wood
[the voice sounds like Baron]
Voice: Hurry!
Voice: Hurry!
Voice: Hurry!
Voice: Only one is genuine!
Shizuku: Which? Which one is genuine?
Voice: Hurry!
Voice: Hurry!
Voice: Hurry!
Shizuku: Ahhh...
Shizuku: Eeeeeeeeeeee...

Chikyuuya
Nishi: Louise, have you come to me? I've already grown so old...
Nishi: Shizuku-san... Well, do come in. Gee, I'd completely dozed off.
Shizuku: Excuse me, um, I wrote a story so I brought it.
Nishi: Oh! So it's done, then.
Shizuku: I promised. Please be the first to read it.
Nishi: This is quite long.

Cover:
If You Listen Closely
The Story Given Me by Baron

Tsukishima Shizuku

Shizuku: Um, could you please read it right away? I'll wait however many 
hours it takes.
Nishi: But... you worked so hard on it. I want to take time to read it...
Shizuku: If it's boring you can stop right away. If it's not a bother... 
Umm, I'm very nervous.
Nishi: I understand. I'll read it right now, if I may. Now, to the 
fireside. It's getting cold today.
Nishi: This way no one should bother us.
Shizuku: Um, would it be all right if I waited downstairs?
Nishi: Hmm?
Shizuku: I don't mind. I'm not at all cold.
Nishi: Well...
Nishi: I don't mind, but...

Outside
Nishi: In a place like this... Shizuku-san, I've finished.
Nishi: Thank you. It was very good.
Shizuku: It's a lie! A lie! Please tell me the truth! The things I wanted 
to write don't fit together! The second half is ridiculous! I know this 
myself!
Nishi: Right. It's rough, unsubtle, and unfinished. Like Seiji's violins.
Nishi: You definitely showed me your freshly quarried stone. You did your 
very best, didn't you. You're terrific. There's nothing to get upset over. 
Please take your time and do a solid job polishing it.
Nishi: Now, it's cold here. Please come inside.
Shizuku: I-I knew after I tried writing. That just wanting to write is no 
good. That I have to study more. But... Seiji-kun is always going on and 
on ahead of me. I told myself I'd do it even if it's impossible. I was so 
scared... so scared...
Nishi: You like Seiji, don't you.

Slurping
Nishi: How does it taste?
Shizuku: It's delicious.
Nishi: When it was Seiji it was ramen.
Nishi: When he finished his first violin, that is.
Nishi: That was a jumbo portion too.

Later
Nishi: Well, thank you.
Nishi: Now then, where was I?
Shizuku: You were studying abroad in Germany and found Baron in the town 
cafe...
Nishi: Right, right. I wonder if you could call it "melancholic" -- I was 
attracted by his expression. I proposed to the proprietor that I 
definitely wanted to take Baron off his hands, but I was turned down. This 
cat-baron has a companion. He said he couldn't tear two lovers apart. He 
said that Baron was waiting for the return of a cat-noblewoman doll who 
had returned to the original craftsman for minor repairs.
Shizuku: That's just like the story I wrote...
Nishi: You're right. A mysterious similarity, isn't it. The day of my 
return to Japan drew near, and I was ready to give up. At that time, a 
woman who was with me offered a proposal.
Nishi: When Baron's sweetheart returned, she would claim it, and we would 
surely reunite the two. The proprietor finally gave in. And so it came to 
be that I left Germany with only Baron. I promised the lady I would return 
without fail to get Baron's sweetheart, and asked her to keep the doll 
until then.
Nishi: And when the two dolls met again, we would too...
Nishi: After that, the war soon started, and I couldn't keep my promise.
Nishi: Finally, after I was able to go to that town again, I searched high 
and low.
Nishi: But I never did find out the lady's whereabouts, or what happened 
to Baron's sweetheart.
Shizuku: She was very important to you, wasn't she?
Nishi: The Baron who lived only in my recollections has been revived for 
me in your hopeful tale. Of course; that...
Nishi: Now, hold out your hands.
Shizuku: Uhh...
Nishi: That stone suits you. I'm giving it to you. Please do a solid job 
and finish writing your own story.
Shizuku: I will...

Nighttime outside
Shizuku: Thank you very much.
Shizuku: Goodbye.

Home
Shizuku: I'm home.
Mother: Welcome back.
Shizuku: Where's Dad?
Mother: In the bath.
Mother: Dear, what time do you think it is now?
Shizuku: I've caused you to worry. From now on, I'll return to studying 
for entrace exams. Please put your mind at ease.
Mother: Oh! Then, you're done with whatever it was you were testing, 
aren't you.
Shizuku: For the time being.
Mother: Have you eaten? There's curry.
Shizuku: No thanks.
Mother: Hmmm. For the time being, huh?

Later
Father: Shizuku, can I come in? Take your bath.
Father: The warrior rests.

Early morning
Shizuku: N-no way!
Shizuku: W-wait!

Outside
Seiji: It's a miracle! I was really able to see you!
Shizuku: I-it's not a dream, is it?
Seiji: I flew back a day early. Get on.
Seiji: Ah, wait a sec. You'll be cold like that.
Seiji: Now, get on.
Shizuku: I'll go get a coat.
Seiji: There's no time. Come on, get on.
Seiji: Hold on tight.
Seiji: I wanted to see you again right away. I called you so many times 
inside my heart -- "Shizukuuuu". And then, like, you really appeared! 
We're amazing!
Shizuku: I wanted to meet you too. This is still like a dream.
Shizuku: How was Cremona?
Seiji: Seeing it was very different from hearing about it. But I'm gonna 
do it! Oh, it's getting light.

On the hill
Shizuku: Shall I get off?
Seiji: It's OK! I decided I was going to give you a ride up the hill.
Shizuku: That's unfair!
Shizuku: I can't stand just being luggage!
Shizuku: Because I want to be of use!
Seiji: I got it! Would you?
Seiji: Just a little more...
Seiji: Shizukuuu! Quick, get on!
Shizuku: Y-yeah.

At the top
Seiji: We made it.
Shizuku: Ohhhh...
Seiji: Shall I give you a hand?
Shizuku: I'm OK.
Seiji: This way.
Shizuku: Incredible! With the morning mist it's just like the ocean.
Seiji: This is my secret spot. It's just about time.
Seiji: I wanted to show this to you.
Seiji: Grandpa was telling me about you. I didn't do anything to cheer you 
on. I was thinking of nothing but myself.
Shizuku: Uh-uh. Because of you, I was able to try my best. I'm glad I 
pushed myself. Because I understand myself a little better than before. 
I'm going to study more. And I've decided to go to high school too.
Seiji: Shizuku, umm, you know... I... It can't very well be right away, 
but... Will you marry me?
Seiji: 'Cause I'm sure I'll become a bona fide violin maker. And after 
that...
Shizuku: Mm-hmm.
Seiji: Really?!
Shizuku: I'm so happy! I thought it would be nice if things could turn out 
this way.
Seiji: Really! All right!
Shizuku: Wait.
Shizuku: The wind's cold.
Seiji: Shizuku, I love you!

Closing Song

*Kantorii Roodo, kono michi
Zutto yukeba
Ano machi ni tsuduite ru
Ki ga suru Kantorii Roodo

	Country Road, If you follow
	this road all the way, I have a feeling
	it's the Country Road to my home town

Hitori botchi, osorezu ni
Ikiyou to yume mite ta
Samishisa oshikomete
Tsuyoi jibun wo mamotte ikou

	I dreamed of living
	without fear of being alone
	Bottling up loneliness
	I'll go, preserving my strong self

*Refrain

Arukidukare tatazumu to
Ukande kuru furusatou no machi
Oka wo maku saka no michi
Sonna boku wo shikatte iru

	When I stand still, tired from walking
	My old home town comes to mind.
	The steep road that winds the hill
	Scolds me for being that way.

*Refrain

Donna kujikesou na toki datte
Kesshite namida ha misenaide
Kokoro nashi ka hochou ga hayaku natte iku
omoide kesu tame

	No matter when I feel downhearted
	I never cry
	Without meaning to, my pace quickens
	To erase the memories

Kantorii Roodo, kono michi
Furusato he tsuduite mo
Boku ha, ikanai sa
Ikenai Kantorii Roodo

	Country Road, even if this road
	continues to my home town
	I won't go, you know
	The Country Road I can't take

Kantorii Roodo, ashita ha
Itsu mo no boku sa
Kaeritai, kaerenai
Sayonara, Kantorii Roodo

	Country Road, tomorrow
	I'll be the same, you know
	I want to go home but I can't
	Farewell, Country Road

Closing Credits follow:
[Note: ">>>" marks frames in the film comic. They don't appear in the 
film, but are useful for matching the translation to the film comic.]
>>>
Voice Actors

Honna Youko   Takahashi Issei

>>>
Tachibana Takashi   Muroi Shigeru
Tsuyuguchi Shigeru   Kobayashi Keiki

>>>
Yamashita Yorie   Takayama Minami   Kayama Maiko   Nakajima Yoshimi

>>>
Iizuka Masami   Chiba Mai   Kuga Mirai   Murano Tadamasa
Yoshida Shousuke   Shiraishi Tatsuya   Suganuma Nagato   Ayukawa Shouhei
Takahashi Satoru   Fujita Daisuke   Sakaguchi Akiko   Naitoh Momoko
Tanaka Masako   Muraguchi Yuki   Waka Yuriko   Shiobara Nao
Yokomae Takanori (?)

>>>
Hirata Keiko   Itoh Hiromi   Narui Yutaka   Yasuda Hiromi
Okada Tatsuya   Imai Yoshihiro   Nakamura Haruhiko   Inoue Naohisa

Ogawa Koumei   Egawa Suguru   Fubuki Masako   Kishibe Shiroo

>>>
Staff

>>>
Executive in charge of production   Tokuma Yasuyoshi

>>>
Associate Producers (?)   Ujiie Seiichirou   Shouji (?) Takashi

Original Story   Hiiragi Aoi (published by Shuueisha)

>>>
Script, Storyboard   Miyazaki Hayao

Line Producers (?)   Yamashita Tatsumi   Ootsuka Tsutomu

Music   Nomi Yuuji

>>>
Theme song    Country Road
   Original Title   "Take Me Home, Country Roads"
   Lyrics and Composition   Bill Danoff, Taffy Nivert, and John Denver
   Japanese Translation   Suzuki Mamiko
   Supplemental Lyrics   Miyazaki Hayao
   Arrangement   Nomi Yuuji
   Singer   Honna Youko (Tokuma Japan Communications)

>>>
Insert song    Country Road
   "Take Me Home, Country Roads"
   Lyrics and Composition   Bill Danoff, Taffy Nivert, and John Denver
   Sung by   Olivia Newton-John (Toshiba EMI)

>>>
Director of Animation (?)   Kousaka Kitarou

Key Animation
Ishii Kuniyuki   Futaki Makiko   Andoh Masashi   Konishi Ken-ichi
Kagawa Ai   Kurita Tsutomu   Inamura Takeshi   Yoshida Ken-ichi
Endoh Masaaki   Moritomo Noriko   Noda Takehiro   Yoshio Hideaki
Kawaguchi Toshio   Ohya Atsuko   Matsuse Masaru   Sasaki Shinsaku
Minowa Hiroko   Saitoh Masaya   Yamada Ken-ichi   Inoue Hiroyuki

>>>
Shinohara Masako   Momose Yoshiyuki   Ohtsuka Shinji (Nobuharu?)

Telecom Animation Film
Tanaka Atsuko   Yano Yuuichirou   Aoyama Hiroyuki   Takiguchi Sadakazu (?)
Yokobori Hisao

>>>
Animation Check   Ohmura Mayumi   Tejima Masako   Nakagome Rie

In-betweeners
Tateno Hiromi   Fujimura Rie   Kitajima Yumiko   Shibata Kazuko
Nakamura Katsutoshi   Shibata Eriko   Onoda Kazuyoshi   Kurata Misuzu
Kuwana Ikuo   Sawa Kunori   Suzuki Makiko   Suzuki Mariko
Matsuo Mariko   Yamamori Eiji   Kikuchi Hana   Tsuruoka Koujirou
Yokoyama Kazumi   Alexandra Weihrauch

>>>
Azuma Seiko   Yamaura Yukari   Nishido Sumie   Yokota Kioko
Nagashima Youko   Sueda Hisako   Komasa   Shintome Rie
Miyazawa Keiko   Sakano Houko   Matsushita Atsuko   Iwayanagi Emiko
Kondoh Rie   Tsuneki Shinobu   Shiina Ritsuko   Miyabayashi Eiko
Katayama Yuuichi   Yamamoto Mayumi   Oota Kumiko   Itoh Yumiko
Mano Suzuko   Adachi Masahiko   Furuya Hiromi

Telecom Animation film

>>>
Takahashi Natsuko   Fujimori Maya   Yazawa Mayu   Hamada Youko
Matsuzaki Masaru   Shikibe Miyoko   Kimura Gou   Suzuki Takao (??)
Sugaya Naoko   Odaka Masako   Itagaki Nobu   Hirai Kazuko
Kouya Hiroko   Yozawa Keiko   Tanji Hiroyuki

Cooperating Animation Studios
Anime Torotoro   Oh Production   Studio Cockpit
Studio Takuranke   Group Donguri

>>>
Art Director   Kuroda Satoshi

Art
Oga Kazuo   Samura Katsu   Yamakawa Akira   Ohta Kiyomi
Tanaka Naoya   Takeshige Youji   Kasugai Naomi   Naganawa Kyouko
Tamura Seiki   Ina Ryouko   Hirahara Sayaka   Fukutome Kiichi
Yamamoto Nizou

>>>
Special Effects   Tanifuji Kaoru

Character Color Design   Yasuda Nichiyo

Color Specification   Ono Akiko   Ohshiro Minako

>>>
Finishing
Izeki Mayo   Mori Naomi   Moriya Kanako   Atsuta Naomi
Taguchi Tomo   Katayama Yuriko

IM Studio
Iseda Nichiyo   Narita Terumi   Takayama Yasuyo   Nakahata Hitomi
Shibata Michiyo   Tanida Youko   Hara Keiko   Furusawa Kazumi
Fukuma Eiko   Ueki Sayuri   Morita Kaoru   Nabetani Hisashi
Maehara Kinuyo   Ikegami Michiko   Ozaki Mito   Kobayashi Kazuo

>>>
Studio Killy
Takahashi Naomi   Morisawa Chiyomi   Miyamoto Chiemi   Fujita Junko
Yuki Watami (?)   Arai Tsuneo   Watanabe Nobuko   Mizukami Kyouko
Saino (?) Kimiko   Obara Yoshiko   Ishiguro Shizuka   Tsunetomi Satoko

Trace (?) Studio M
Yoshida Sayoko   Maeno Izumi   Motohashi Emiko   Watanabe Emiko
Daigo Reiko   Aihara Akiko   Sugiyama Wakako   Kaneuchi Junko

>>>
Studio Ado
Sawame Mayumi   Shibusawa Shizue   Kojima Tomiko   Yoshino Kiyoko

Studio OZ
Tanaka Naomi   Shinoda Toki   Hosoya Akemi   Isozaki Akihiko

Technical Cooperation     Murao     Stack   Saitou Yoshio
      Taiyou Shikisai   Kitamura Shigeji

>>>
Director of Photography   Okui Atsushi

Photography    Yabuta Junji   Takahashi Wataru   Kojoh Kan

Sound Director   Asari Naoko

>>>
Recording Engineer (?)   Inoue Hideshi (?)

Assistant Recording Engineers (?)   Asakura Tsutomu   Takagi Sou

Effects   Itoh Michihiro

Effects Assistants    Ishino Takahisa   Horiuchi Tomohiro

Music Production    Meiru   Nagano Michitoku   Takagi Tomou

>>>
Music Mixer   Ohno Eihiko

Recording Studio    Tokyo TV Center

Casting    BE WITCH  Yamanaka Utako

Audio Production    Studio Moon
    Inashiro Kazumi   Imai Yasuyuki

SR*D Rerecord    Nishio Noboru   Abe Kouji

>>>
Titles    Mano Kaoru   Michikawa Akira

Editing    Seyama Takeshi

Assistant Editors    Mizuta Kyouko   Uchida Megumi

>>>
Assistants to the Director    Ohno Masahiko   Itoh Hiroyuki

>>>
Production Manager   Takahashi Nozomi

Production Chief    Kawabata Toshiyuki

Production Desk    Tanaka Sengi (?)   Nishigiri Tomoaki

>>>
Production Planning (?)    Aritomi Kouji   Ootsuka Kouji   Nagasawa Minako

Office Managers   Yamamoto Akemi   Yamada Naomi

Merchandise Development    Imai Tomomi   Asano Kouichi

In charge of publications    Nozaki Tooru

>>>
Cooperation
Koganei City Koganei #1 Junior High School    Chazoki (?) Yukinobu 
Violin/Guitar Workshop
Apisu Corp.    Knopf(?)-Antiques-Shellman Corp.
                       Isogai Noriyo
Satoh Yuki
     Cameo Interactive
Hashimoto Taketoshi

>>>
Special Cooperation    Yomiuri Newspaper Company

Publicity Producer   Yabe Masaru

Toho    Nishinoh Sadaki   Harada Rieko

Major    Wakisaka Moriichi   Okamura Naoto   Yamagata Rika
    Wada Sachiko   Fujii Naeko   Koyanagi Michiyo
    Hara Mieko   Watanabe Mika

>>>
Mimi wo Sumaseba Production Committee

Tokuma Shoten
Kaneko Akira   Nishizawa Masahiko   Suzuki Masaki (?)
Tsutsui Ryouko   Aoto Kouichi (?)   Itoh Junko

Nippon Television Network
Urushido Yasuharu (?)   Hosaka Taketaka (?)   Takahashi Hiroshi
Takei Hidehiko   Fujimoto Suzuko   Tachimatsu (?) Noriko

>>>
Hakuhoudou
Ohno Shigeru   Sawata Hatsuhiko (?)   Saitoh Hisaomi
Morie Hiroshi   Fujimaki Naoya   Nishida Fujio

Studio Ghibli
Kobayashi Shigeru   Yanagisawa Akira   Arai Akiyoshi
Nonaka Shinsuke   Ichimura Akio   Dohguchi Tomoki (?)

>>>
In charge of production    Okuda Seiji   Suzuki Nobuko

Developing     Imagica
   Timing   Hirabayashi Hiroaki
   Optical   Sekiguchi Masaharu

>>>
(Dolby Digital Spectral Recording mark)

Technical Cooperation
Continental Far East Corp.
    Mori Mikio

>>>
Art for "The Story Given me by Baron"  Inoue Naohisa   from "Ibaraado 
hakubutsushi" ("A Natural History of 'Ibaraado'") (Published by Kakuusha)

Digital Compositing Production   Digital Image Creating Room Flamingo   
Ochi Takehiko
    NTV Program Division, Art Center, CG Production Department   Sugano 
Yoshinori
    Digital Film Services By Cinesite

Woodcut "Craftsman Making a Violin in Prison"   Miyazaki Keisuke

>>>
A Studio Ghibli Production

Producer   Suzuki Toshio

>>>
Executive Producer   Miyazaki Hayao

>>>
Director   Kondoh Yoshifumi
